\chapter*{Acknowledgments}
\label{ch:acks}

During the past 9 years at Columbia University, I have met inspiring advisors
and colleagues who defined who I am as a researcher. My deepest gratitude goes
to my advisor, Jason Nieh, for believing in me and making me reach my full
potential. He never gave up on me, even when he had all the reasons to. I am
thankful to the members of my dissertation committee, especially Roxana
Geambasu, Junfeng Yang, and Alfred Aho. Roxana taught me distributed systems
design in a rigorous and practical manner. She offered countless hours of
guidance both on a professional level and personal level. I could always count
on her when I needed a listening ear. Junfeng shared his deep knowledge and
expertise in systems which were invaluable in developing my work. Al provided
numerous insights to improve this document. I am grateful to the friends and
colleagues that helped me finish what I originally thought was impossible to
complete. Sid Nair made me a better person by touching me with kindness,
softness, and humility. Interacting with Sid has always been a wonderful, even
during disagreements. Kareem Kouddous allowed me to implement my research
prototype in a large production system he was responsible for. He brought back
the self-esteem I had once lost. Jeremy Andrus was consistently available to
give me a hand when I struggled getting things done. I have tremendous respect
for his sense of discipline and commitment. Christoffer Dall kept me inspired.
He became lead developer of the Linux kernel KVM/ARM subsystem thanks to his
social, communication, and technical skills. My mentor, Oren Laadan, provided
guidance when I started my research. His ability to express complex concepts
with great ease is fascinating. I wish I could be as articulated and eloquent
as he is. I want to thank all the Columbia University staff who provided the
structure allowing me to complete my work. Jessica Rosa, Remiko Moss, Daisy
Nguyen, and Cindy Walters, greatly improved my experience. Finally, I thank
my friends Valentin Burlacu, Deirdre Campbell, Mathias Lecuyer, Quentin
Decock, Aaron Allon, and Laure Theroude for providing many years of support.

This work was supported in part by a Google Research Award, NSF grants
CNS-1018355, CNS-0905246, CCF-1162021, CNS-1162447, CNS-1422909, CNS-1351089,
CNS-1117805, CNS-1054906, CNS-1012633, CNS-0914845, CNS-0905246, AFRL
FA8650-10-C-7024, AFRL FA8750-10-2-0253, AFOSR MURI FA9550-07-1-0527, and DARPA
FA8650-11-C-7190.
